Sixteen!
Seventeen...
Have the point.
Eighteen...?
Leave it...!
Nineteen.
Twenty..!
Mr. Bashir...!
Someone has come to meet you.
Okay.
You go.
You know Satya...
Spring is the time...
when emotions are brimming.
Maybe that's why the verses go as..:
"The scarlet rays of the setting sun... '
'...on a Spring-end day... '
"I saw in your eyes my...."
Time's up!
What happened..?
It's 5 o' clock...!
Brother-in-law didn't
get his evening tea...!
Oh no..!
What 'brother-in-law'...!
Listen....
what about our Kashmir trip...?
Ohh..God..!
It's very costly Satya....!
I don't want to hear anything..!
You have to take me there.....!
How? You tell me...?
I hardly have the money needed.
But look outside...!
The nature's in its full bloom..!
So for now...
..let's imagine Kolkata as our Kashmir...
Okay..?
Only lyrical words...!
Let me create Kashmir for you
with these lyrical words...!
"Amidst the daily domestic lives..."
"in everyday's affairs and desires..."
"Here and there, people make
fun of my feelings for you...."
"In my focus, are your eyes..and my...."
Time's up..again...!
"The truth-seeker romances..."
"and Satyabati neglects...."
"And here I am... since afternoon..."
"Sighing and begging...."
"for a cup of tea?! Alas me...!"
Ohh... no!
Satya please stay...!
Satya..!
Satya...!
- Leave me!
"Reciting a romantic poem"
Pay attention to these lines, Ajit..!
Yes yes..I am..!
"Reciting a romantic poem"
Hmm....
It's Vidyapati's description...
Which a bachelor like you
won't understand.
"Leaving crime and criminals, engaging
into amorous affairs...
"The cupid has struck you..and how!"
Here, brother-in-law...!
Your husband's character is degrading
due to his poetry obsessions...!
Mark my prediction...!
What's this! Why did you
snatch the book away!
Satya!
Give me the book!
You can't stop me by
snatching it either...!
I'll start again with Michael Madhusudan,
Hemchandra
Tagore, Mohitlal
Satyen Dutta, Sukumar Sen...
to contemporary Nazrul,
Buddhadeb, Jibanananda
Sudhindranath... I'll read every one!
Brother-in-law...!
- Hmm?
Seems like your friend is aspiring to
become a poet!
Imagine how his poems will turn out
sister-in-law..!
Tremendous..!
Want to hear an example?
- Yes..! Please!
Satya....stop
You stop!
Yes, you carry on!
Yes..!
"Here and there, bloodstains
everywhere.."
"I am loosing my sense..."
Wonderful!
'By collecting the fingerprints...."
"I got the evidence..!"
Amazing...!!
I'll add two more lines..!
- Yes..!
"Due to the fake property-papers'
case.."
"cannot find some peace..."
"The nephew murdered his uncle,
and got his property,"
"what a masterpiece...!!"
Hey where are you going?
Come in!
So you are Satyanweshi..??
Please take a seat.
Tell me, what is the matter?
There will be.
What will happen?
The matter!
Listen!
If I die suddenly...
I want you to investigate the
cause of my death.
There are a thousand bucks... count it!
I might not be able to give you
the fees later..!
That's why now...!
I want to ask you a
few questions.
Whether I'll take this
case or not...
..depends on your answers.
Go ahead, but I may not
answer some of them.
Alright...
What's your name?
Satyakam Das.
Just as you are....Satyanweshi.
Address?
33/34, Amherst Street.
Employed..?
Employer.
Must have heard Das-Choudhury's
"Suchitra Emporium"?
Hmm..
I am one of the partners there.
It was founded by my grandfather.
He nominated me as one of the
partners before his death.
Who is the other partner..?
Ushapati Das.
My father.
How old are you?
7th July, 1915.
My date of birth.
Now calculate...!
And you have other 'qualities' as well..?
Why..? Is that a crime?
Hmm..
You also eye women..?
How many such lives you
have ruined so far..?
I'm thinking of hiring a person for
counting that!
So you think someone
might murder you.
Do you suspect anyone...??
I do.
But I won't reveal the name.
That's it for today.
How would I know if you
are murdered?
Keep following the newpapers...!
Keep a track of it...
You won't have to wait for long...!
"The ant thrives on the sugar
provided by the Lord"
My dear sister-in-law, your Kashmir
trip is sorted...!
Isn't it Byomkesh?
Hmm..
But I haven't come across such
a shameless young man...!
Listen...!
What I could comprehend
from the next room...
The young man gave you the money
for investigating his own murder..!
With that money... the trip...
Don't pay attention to such eccentric
thoughts of a rich drunkard!
Here... take it.
But one thing is really strange Ajit.
He wants investigation of his
approaching murder,
but doesn't want to stop
it from happening..!
Absolutely..!
Anyway leave it!
What's written in the destiny
will happen.
Better I book the tickets for
Kashmir instead.
That's better...
I'd better start packing.
- Let's go.
Wait..!
- Here we go again...!
We don't have enough woolens
for Kashmir..!
I want blankets, and a coat for me.
"I want!"
I need hundred bucks more for
that Satya.
Give...!
Goodness, she can't wait..!
Let's go Ajit..!
- Where?
Let's get started..! C'mon..!
Okay..let's...!
You don't have to worry
about the price.
The quality is really good.
I'll give a discount.
This is not just some fabric..!
It's Dhakai muslin..!
You won't get it anywhere
except for our shop.
Looking for sarees to gift someone
special, Ajit?
One minute.
Just like that..looking.
I can see how much you are...!
Hello..!
Hello.
So what are you looking for?
Nothing much. Two blankets and
a Beaver coat for women.
Sure..come with me.
- Yes
One minute!
I'll attend them.
Please go ahead...
So he's your...
- Partner!
Rather your father..!
You really want to buy, or this is your
investigative method..?
Huhh..?
No..we want..
Ajit look.
Beaver coat ...hundred bucks..two
blankets... hundred bucks.
Two hundred bucks..!
Make that a hundred bucks..!
What!
Make..that... a hundred bucks..!
Fifty percent discount!
Hmm
Hundred bucks..!
- Yes sure..here you go.
Wait a minute, I'm coming.
Give the money....!
Oh yes..! Sorry. Take it.
Bimal!
Pack them!
Sir!
I need to talk to you.
Yes..?
Is she going to pay or..
Gift!
But Sir your father gets angry
due to such things...
Remind him that like him, I am also
fifty percent partner in this shop, ok?
We're done.
Take it.
Let's go.
Yes!
They are really nice..!
It's so good!
Oh my God!
So beautiful!
Madam!
That fellow Satyakam... you see...
I mean..you see sister-in-law,
..I'm..going.
No..I mean..What's the name
of the shop owner...?
Turn around..!
Satyakam Das.
Yes yes!
Got these items at discount,
just for him.
Really..?
He's such a nice person!
Indeed!
But the 'Emporium' will soon become
a 'Memorial' if he isn't murdered.
By the way...
Have you yourself chosen these items?
huh..?
Yes.yes..definitely!
There's water..
- Yes...
There....
If only you knew how to give
discounts... Banerjee!
- Hmm..?
What did he whisper?
He is degrading. He lied!
Mr. Truth-Seeker..!!
Brother Byomkesh..!
Come....this side!
Can you recognise me..?
Nanda Ghosh!
I stay in your locality!
Went to collect funds
for Saraswati Puja!
Oh..I see....
But why are you in a different locality
at this time, like this..?
To hit!
Goodness..!!
Whom...?
A young lad of this house!
Oh really..?
- Yes!
Why so..?
That's a long story.
But why are you here?
You know the members
of this house?
Just one person...
Maybe that person
is your target!
Satyakam!
How can I, if he's close to you!
Not really close...
Anyway, leave it! Why do you
want to hit him?
What's your reason...??
I told you... it's a long story.
You want to listen?
Then come with me!
Where do we have to go?
To Bhuteshwar's place!
No Byomkesh... not into any
ghostly matters...
Relax!
Not ghosts! Bhuteshwar wrestler!
He heads our wrestling arena!
Come!
Let's go..!
Where...?
- C'mon..!
Come come...!!
Which direction?
- This way!
Come...!
Come... come..!
Hey..! All good..?
There..! That way..!
Look....!!
Budhia..! Well done..!!
Don't be afraid..!
Come...! Come..come...!
Brilliant..!! Great job Budhia...!
Just see this...!!
Grab him..!!
Well done!
There's our Head!
Come... come come..!
Come...
Boss!
Byomkesh Bakshi! Very well known
detective!
Satyanweshi! (Truth-seeker)
What??
Nothing...
Are you a policeman?
Or that fellow's patron?
Byomkesh..let's go home.
Well, Mr. Bhuteshwar... I know Satyakam
for just one day.
Go and heat up the oil!
Be it a day, or a year...
If I decide to knock someone down...
I make sure I do that!
- Definitely..definitely..!
Can we go home now?
You see, it's an amazing decision that
you want to beat him up...
I just want to know the reason for
doing so..!
He's a scoundrel!
Ok..
Teases women anywhere..!
This won't happen in our area!
I'm going.
- Ajit... Ajit..!
Good..
Even I do... yoga..
Often..
You see Mr. Bhuteshwar...
I believe few punches are necessary
for Satyakam's activities.
I'll just request...
don't kill him...!
And be careful, don't get caught.
That's why I will do it brother
Byomkesh!
Few punches and I'll run away!
That's not even my locality..so no
problem at all!
But in case there's any...
inform me, Nanda.
So we may leave now..? Bye.
Where are you going!
Home..it's dinner time..
No! - Ok, no dinner!
- Sit! - No, no dinner!
Sonte!
- Yes boss!
Go and prepare some refreshments
for them!
Syrup? I love syrups..! My mother
used to...
prepare daily for me...
..in the morning.
You'll love it! Have a drink!
Mother did so..
Can I hold the club? - Hmm??
- Please be quiet!
Syrup...!
Went straight into the tiger's den!
You said it..!
Their boss is...
By the way Byomkesh!
Are you really degrading?
- Why??
The one who paid you..
You want him to be beaten up..?
If his death gets annulled upon being
punched slightly...
Isn't that good enough?
And you are talking about my
character..? - Yes!
Look there..!
"Characterless" (Movie name)
- Character...!
Byomkesh..! Wait wait!
Listen to me..!
Ajit!
Ajit..!
Ajit c'mon..! Wake up...!
Here..! Wake up and hold it..!
Take the newspaper..!
Get ready! I'm going to take a shower.
"Businessman mysteriously
murdered at midnight!"
"Ushapati Das's only son Satya..."
"Satyakam Das had a mysterious death."
"The police are investigating."
B..Byomkesh!
Who is it..?
Hello.
Yes..tell me..
I'm sorry...
to disturb you now...
I think... I have seen you both
earlier..but where...
Is it Suchitra Emporium..?
- Yes..yes..you are right..
I'm Byomkesh Bakshi..
He's my friend Ajit Bandyopadhyay...
- Yes..but..
Do you an emergency?
A mishap actually happened
at our house...
I know..I know..
The mishap only brings me here...
A day before yesterday only I met
Mr. Satyakam.
He came up to me with a proposal.
Please take a seat.
- Thank you.
What proposal..?
Well..he asked me to investigate the cause
if he dies a sudden death.
I see...Satya perhaps had suspected
something.
I'm sorry..but why did he
go to you..?
Are you a policeman?
No no..!
Not a policeman..I am a truth-seeker.
I understood...
Then did he tell you...
whom does he suspect...?
No..he didn't take any name.
So once you allow....
can I proceed with my investigation..?
Yes..but the police are already doing it...
..can you proceed for any new findings...?
I don't know if I can..but
I can definitely try...
But what about your fees..?
- No need. Mr. Satyakam
had already given me.
But Mr. Byomkesh...!
Even that won't bring Satyakam back...
Then why churn the matter...?
Mr. Ushapati...!
I can assure you,
there won't be any such churnings...!
My only aim is...
to discover the truth.
How many people stay here?
Sorry..?
How many members are
there in the family..?
Me, my wife...
Satyakam..
- He used to...
Yes..used to..
..and my nephew and niece...
Sitangshu and Chumki.
They are staying here
since a year back...
A year..?
Yes... actually..
My brother-in-law died last year...
And my sister..it's been
ten years since..
And who is he...?
He is my father-in-law.
Ramakanta Choudhury.
Ramakanta Choudhury..?
It was written "Choudhury
Villa" on the nameplate..
..so this house belongs to.....
- Yes you guessed it right.
It was built by him.
Now Mr. Ushapati, tell me..
..where do you all stay?
We stay here only...
- No..!
Obviously here...
I meant, which room belongs
to whom?
The ones in upstairs... downstairs...
Front side... backside..like that.
Ohh... now I got it.
Me and my wife stay upstairs.
And downstairs, at the backside..
Sitangshu and Chumki stay.
..in separate rooms..
next to each other...
Oh yes! We have an old servant... Sahodeb!
He sleeps outside..at the courtyard.
And Satyakam?
Huhh..?
This is... his room.
Why did he stay downstairs?
So that he could freely
execute his activities...
Uncle!
- Yes..?
No..I won't drink it now.
Please take it...
Chumki.
Hmmm....
How did you come to know about
yesterday's matter?
It was nearly 1 o'clock at night.
I was sleeping. Suddenly...
I woke up hearing a strange sound.
I felt it was coming from the
main entrance
I came running downstairs....
Look Sir..what happened
to junior Master...!
Byomkesh..!
So you are Sahodeb...?
Since how many years you have been
working here?
He's the oldest member of this house.
He's here since my father-in-law's time....
for almost 35 years.
So yesterday night..you were...
- I don' know, Sir!
- Let me finish.
When Satyakam knocked at the door,
what were you doing?
I don't know anything Sir...!
Try to remember...
I no nothing Sir...!
Who is he?
I don't know...
anything Sir...!
You may go.
Where does your niece stay...?
- Huh...?
Your uncle told me, you have been
staying here for a year.
Where were you staying before that...?
In Maniktala.
In which college do you study?
And your elder brother?
When your brother Satyakam used to come
home late at night, could you feel it?
No.
I used to fall asleep by then.
How did you... I mean..
Find your brother Satyakam?
Did you speak to him?
Okay..!
When did you come to know about
last night's incident?
Chumki!
What happened brother?
Couldn't you hear a loud noise..!
Not at all!
Come with me!
What happened brother!
Brother..?!
Come with me!
Hello..hello... Amherst
Street police station?
I am Ushapati Das.
Owner of Suchitra Emporium...
A murder occured in my house...!
My son.....
Satyakam.....Das.......!
Please come fast... thank you!
Aunty...!
Go and see her..!
Uncle....! Uncle...!
Aunty...!?
Brother...!! Brother...!!
Come here fast..!
What were you doing last night?
I was reading a book at
that time.
I have a habit of reading till late
at night.
Which book...?
Which edition?
Did you hear the sound of firing?
Yes... I did hear..
But I didn't know it was the sound
of firing.
Does the door of your room stay
closed at night?
No.
It stays open.
The one of Chumki's stays closed maybe.
Yes... because she's a girl!
Did you step out of the house after
everyone fell asleep?
Did you...?
No.
Apart from the main entrance....
..is there any other way to go
outside..?
This is the one.
Did anyone go outside through this way?
No!
I would have heard... if anyone did so.
I stay just beside it.
Only you went out.
No!
Are you speaking the truth?
I told you I didn't go out!
Okay...
When Satyakam used to come late at night,
..could you sense it?
I could.....
sometimes.
Not always.
"sometimes..."!
How was he as a person?
I mean, how was your relation with him?
I am given a shelter to stay here.
"Shelter to stay"!
Who has the keys to this doorway?
Brother Sahodeb.
Ok..fine..!
Now if only Satyakam's mother.....
- Suchitra!
Yes..
Suchitra..is a bit unwell..Hope you
can understand.
And the mishap..
Quite naturally... but I
won't talk much to her.
Just one or two questions...
I got it..
- Why are you harassing my husband?
Why did you come here!
Pardon me madam, my responsibility
brought me here.
No, you don't have any responsibility here!
Please leave!
You don't want to know who murdered
your son?
No I don't..!
Spare us..! Please leave!
Mr. Byomkesh!
- Yes!
Please don't mind her words...
- No no... I understand.
Even I shouldn't have done this.
Okay..bye..
- Bye.
Let's go.
What happened?
Who's it?
What's the matter...
Let me see..! Let me just....
yes...
Can't take it out...!
Hmm..it was glued not so long ago..
Had there been kids in the house,
it would have made some sense...
Do you know anything about this?
No..!
But Sahodeb might.
Sahodeb!
He knows about it!
I don't know anything Sir...!
It wasn't there when I came home
yesterday evening......
And you...??
You both go inside.
Come, let's go Chumki.
On the night of the murder....
..the foil paper grew up by itself
on the door...??
What do you get from it Ajit?
Bye Mr. Ushapati..!
- Ok..
C'mon..
Thank God!
We'll get to see Test cricket matches in
our very own Eden Gardens...!
Our team will now reply back!
We are weak in pace bowling though...
England (opponent Cricket team) doesn't
know the spin bowling technique as well!
So what? The match will be a
neck-to-neck fight..!
See, Team India has a draw. - Right!
Byomkesh!
- Yes!
Did you find anyone mourning
in the family?
Sorrow more or less turns one stoical...
as the saying goes.
True, but Mr. Ushapati and his wife
didn't seem stoical even.
Hmm...
Satyakam didn't have a good character..
But he was their only son.
Atleast some amount of mourning for...
Did you find his parents grieving at all..?
I think...
..there's something utterly wrong
with the family.
Absolutely! It's Satyakam who's
the family's mistake!
And the foilpaper on the door...?
It might be coincidental...
and if it's not...
Hmm..?
Come..let's go to the police station!
Police station? Ok..let's go..!
What's the matter?
At such an early hour?
Satyakam Das....
God...!
Tell me why the hell are you
getting involved in this case!
Circumstances..Mr.Bhabani...!
But first tell me, the
lady who just went...
That woman!
She's one of the designated
desires of Satyakam Das!
Alright..!
Madam Annapurna!
She's a femme fatale!
Anyway....!
You have some sweets instead of
brainstorming over such petty things.
Oh, thank you!
- Sit..have some sweets!
Thank you!
Can you gage who is the murderer?
See Mr. Byomkesh!
That Satyakam was a loafer...!
I would have given his murderer a treat,
if I were to give the verdict...!
Did the post mortem report come?
No..! It didn't yet!
He died due to the firing, is it?
Either revolver, or pistol...
The bullet entered his body
from behind the left side,
but didn't come out.
It's somewhere inside his body.
So the shooter targeted from
Satyakam's back..?
Hmm..might be.
Probably hiding in the bushes...!
The moment Satyakam stood in front of the
door, the shooter fired from his back..!
I'll definitely give a
treat to the shooter...!
There's an exercise arena in the
next locality... do you know?
They are gentlemen... they can't do it.
Gentlemen... aren't they Ajit...?!
Gentlemen remined me...
..of Satyakam's cousin brother, staying
at his house. Have you seen him?
Yes, I have. He's not a bad person...
But his father was a revolutionary.
Don't say this to anyone.
His father was beaten to death
at a police station.
The OC of that police station
was murdered after a few days.
I feel this boy murdered
the OC out of revenge.
There aren't any evidences though....!
What do you think? Can he murder?
You can't say anything Mr. Byomkesh..!
If a disgrace like Satyakam
can exist in this society.
anything can happen!
But when that disgrace
was being wiped off...
I mean, when Satyakam was murdered...
Sitangshu was inside the
house at that time.
And the firing took place outside
the house...!
That justifies it!
Right... right..! And moreover...
..there isn't any proof against Sitangshu
that states...
he was outside that night.
You think Satyakam didn't have any enemies?
The moment he stepped out
of the house...
he transformed into devil..!
..right..!
By the way, his belongings
when he died... those...
Come! I'll show you.
- Yes, please.
You continue wearing your belt... we'll go,
have a look and come back...!
Continue with belt...?
Let's go..!
Our boss (Bhuteshwar) left for Benares
today morning!
Straight to Benares..!
- Yes!
When I came to do the cleaning..
I saw him reading the newspaper...
After I went and fetched him
some water...
..I saw he was already dressed to go.
He told me, "I am going to Benares.
Inform my boys."
So I informed you..!
Come Ajit! Let's go...!!
And come fast..!!
- Yes..!
Nanda... Nanda please!
Don't make us run after you anymore..!
What's your motive..?
The motive of you and your Bhuteshwar Sir's...?
Why are you two trying to escape?
What's there to get scared?
Escaping??? Not... at all...!
I am here only..!
I saw you... just now...
brother Byomkesh...!
Oh really...!
- Y..yes...!
Even I saw you just now..!
- Oh...
Good afternoon Nanda..!
- Yes... good after...
- By the way Nanda...!
What did your boss see
in today's newspaper,
..that he headed straight for Benares..?
You see..brother Byomkesh...
Boss got Divine Benediction
in his dreams...
God said...
God said..."Bhuteshwar, come to
Benares and worship me...!"
Is that what you meant..?
He who prays a lot has some dishonesty
within... perhaps you know that..!
Boss is gone...
Now what if you....
end up getting all the blames,
Mr. Nanda Ghosh..?
No no..! Brother Byomkesh! No...!
I'll speak out everything..!
Whatever I know... every... everything...!
The man who came to sell the pistol...
do you....know him...?
No!
Did Bhuteshwar purchase it..?
- Don't know...
Atleast not in front of us.
But we didn't want to
kill Satyakam, we just...
wanted to punch him! Believe me!
Have some tea. - Take it!
- Yes..!
Nanda..?
- Yes....!
Satyakam had ruined many
women's' lives right?
Yes!
You must be knowing about his
relations with some of them...
Not everyone...
But Mr. Akhil staying on the other lane,
..came to us to complain about him!
About his daughter Subala.
And...
Mr. Rameshwar's granddaughter?
That incident is shameful..!
Want to listen brother...??
No... not their incidents...
Anyone else...?
Uhh...
And Mr. Bhabani's daughter Salila...!
Which Mr. Bhabani..??
The police inspector from
the other locality...!
He sent his daughter to her uncle's house
due to Satyakam's activities...
We have information!
Okay... that's wonderful!
So according to you....
there were no dearth of enemies
in Satyakam's life.
Thank you!
For telling us so many
things Nanda....
except....
where you were yesterday night...!
Uhh... m..me?
Yes Mr. Nanda Ghosh..you!
I was...
- Ajit where do you think he was..?
I think....
with that pistol...
he was pointing at Satyakam's house...
- No brother Ajit...!
What are you saying! No no..!
I didn't murder!
I've never touched pistol...!
Listen Nanda!
I believe either you murdered him
last night,
or you witnessed it..!
Because you were present at the spot!
Now you say, what will you prefer..!
To be hanged till death....?
Or be the prime witness....?
Speak up...! Speak out...!
I swear I don't know
anything brother Byomkesh!
I didn't murder him!
Believe me!
I ran away after seeing that
car approaching..! - Car..!!
Which car..??
Yesterday around midnight.. a car came...
to drop Satyakam.
A car around midnight....?
Who else was in the car?
- I don't know...! I didn't murder!
I swear on God..!!
Car....??